Update documentation for release (#18)
omec-project/sdcore-docs: release/1.4.rst

telemetry, policy management. Access networks can connect to Access & Mobility
Management Function (AMF) or Mobility Management Entity (MME) depending on the
type of access used. Below is the summary of the features delivered in SD-Core
1.4 Release.

Highlights
----------

Release v1.4.0 focuses on improving the source code, improve the CI/CD pipeline,
bug fixes, and several improvements in the UPF. All new functionality in this
release contributes to better support of 5G Network functionality.

**Go version**: Code-base was updated to use Go 1.21.

**Linters**: Enable multiple linters and enforce them to check Go code.
Additionally, enable linter for Dockerfile (hadolint) and linters for other
components.

**CI/CD pipeline**: GitHub Actions were enabled in all of the sd-core 5G
components. Moreover, `Dependabot` was added to help manage dependency updates.

**Docker images**: Full refactoring of Dockerfile to obtain the smallest
possible size for the resulting Docker image.

**Consolidated repositories**: Multiple small/tiny repositories were
consolidated into the `util` repository such that the whole 5G sd-core is
composed of as few as possible repositories.

> **Webui GET operations**: Add GET operations for DeviceGroups and Network

Reviewer: storing config in the mongodb
mongodb separate database collection for config
recovering config in case  webui restarts

Slices.

**Sctp-Lb**: Full refactoring if SCTPLB code and its Docker image (size
decreased from ~1.2GB to 21.2MB)

**Config 5G**: When deploying SD-Core, all services using this client code go
into a tight loop using 100% of a CPU thread until webui is available and
configured with a network slice. This issue was resolved by adding some small
sleeps that will free up some CPU time. The worst case scenario with this sleep
is that the service will take 5 seconds more to get configured after initial
deployment.

> **gNBSim**: Add support for retransmit message. Also, add support for statistics

Reviewer: TMSI support

Author: Done!

- Mark GTP (IP) packets with the same DSCP value as the inner IP packet.
- Fix issue with GTP Echo response.
- Improve documentation to deploy UPF in modes (AF_PACKET, AF_XDP, CNDP, DPDK).
- Refactor route-control script to reduce complexity and to improve readability,
logging, error handling, and threading.

**UPF (Helm Charts)**: Helm Charts for the UPF got moved from the
`sdfabric-helm-charts` umbrella into the `sdcore-helm-charts` umbrella.

.. note::
    For any 3gpp release compliance refer - (:ref:`4g-compliance`) and (:ref:`5g-compliance`)

Component Versions in the 1.4.0 Release
---------------------------------------

Helm Chart Versions and their component charts and containers:

* sdcore-helm-chart: ``0.12.8``
    * omec-control-plane: ``0.12.0``
        * hssdb: ``omecproject/c3po-hssdb:master-df54425``
        * hss  : ``omecproject/c3po-hss:master-df54425``
        * pcrf  : ``omecproject/c3po-pcrf:pcrf-d58dd1c``
        * pcrfdb  : ``omecproject/c3po-pcrf:pcrf-d58dd1c``
        * config4g  : ``omecproject/5gc-webui:master-1121545``
        * spgwc  : ``omecproject/spgw:master-e419062``
        * mme  : ``omecproject/nucleus:master-a8002eb``

>     * omec-sub-provision: ``1.0.0``

Author: @thakurajayL, is this version ok? or should we also align the Helm Charts version to `1.4.0` for all of the 5G SD-Core components?

..
   SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2024 Intel Corporation
   SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

SD-Core 1.4 Release
===================

1.4.0 Release Details
---------------------

SD-Core supports 4G & 5G network functions and includes APIs for configuration,
telemetry, policy management. Access networks can connect to Access & Mobility
Management Function (AMF) or Mobility Management Entity (MME) depending on the
type of access used. Below is the summary of the features delivered in SD-Core
1.4 Release.

Highlights
----------

> Release v1.4.0 focuses on improving the source code, improve the CI/CD pipeline,
> bug fixes, and several improvements in the UPF. All new functionality in this
> release contributes to better support of 5G Network functionality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Release v1.4.0 focuses on improving the quality of the source code, adding new automated checks in the CI/CD pipeline, bug fixes to increse stability, and several improvements in the UPF. All new functionality in this
release contributes to better support of 5G Network functionality.
```

I think being more precise would be useful, any new release would "improve the source code".

Author: Done.

is that the service will take 5 seconds more to get configured after initial
deployment.

**gNBSim**: Several improvements were added to this component, including:
- Add support for retransmit message
- Add support for statistics at procedure level and transaction level
- Add E2E latency measurements
- Add support for Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity (TMSI)

**UPF**: The UPF was the component that has the most feature additions among all
of the SD-Core components. Among the most relevant changes are:
- Add GTPu path measurement/monitoring as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501
(Release 16).
- Enable CNDP (Cloud Native Data Plane) as another mode of operation.
- Make `BESS` to use a newer version of DPDK (i.e., DPDK-22.11).
- Use `JSONC` format for the UPF's configuration instead of JSON to be able to
add comments to configuration file.
- Mark GTP (IP) packets with the same DSCP value as the inner IP packet.
- Fix issue with GTP Echo response.
- Improve documentation to deploy UPF in modes (AF_PACKET, AF_XDP, CNDP, DPDK).
- Refactor route-control script to reduce complexity and to improve readability,
logging, error handling, and threading.

> 

Reviewer 2: (not sure where to place this)
There were changes in many nf's that used to cache the nrf address forever, regardless if it changed. This meant that when the NRF crashed and received a new IP, the other NF's would keep on trying to reach it via its old address. 

```
fix: Remove NRF caching in multiple network functions. A more up-to-spec caching will be re-enabled in the future. 
```

..
   SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2024 Intel Corporation
   SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

SD-Core 1.4 Release
===================

1.4.0 Release Details
---------------------

SD-Core supports 4G & 5G network functions and includes APIs for configuration,
telemetry, policy management. Access networks can connect to Access & Mobility
Management Function (AMF) or Mobility Management Entity (MME) depending on the
type of access used. Below is the summary of the features delivered in SD-Core
1.4 Release.

Highlights
----------

> Release v1.4.0 focuses on improving the quality of the source code, adding new

Reviewer: Should we have v prefix to release ? Heading does not have v prefix.

Author: Good point. Fixed it.

automated checks in the CI/CD pipeline, bug fixes to increase stability, and
several improvements in the UPF. All new functionality in this release
contributes to better support of 5G Network functionality.

**Go version**: Code-base was updated to use Go 1.21.

**Linters**: Enable multiple linters and enforce them to check Go code.
Additionally, enable linter for Dockerfile (hadolint) and linters for other
components.

**CI/CD pipeline**: GitHub Actions were enabled in all of the sd-core 5G
components. Moreover, `Dependabot` was added to help manage dependency and
security updates.

**Docker images**: Full refactoring of Dockerfile to obtain the smallest
possible size for the resulting Docker image.

**Consolidated repositories**: Multiple small/tiny repositories were
consolidated into the `util` repository such that the whole 5G sd-core is

> composed of as few as possible repositories.

Reviewer: Did you mention move of sdcore-helm-charts & sdcore-docs content also to omec-project.

Author: Another good observation. Initially, I only mentioned about the `upf` Helm Charts. Now, I added a text related to your comment

**Network Functions**: Remove NRF caching in multiple network functions. A more

> up-to-spec caching will be re-enabled in the future.

Reviewer: Hmmm..would like to understand this.

Author: https://github.com/omec-project/udm/pull/62
https://github.com/omec-project/pcf/pull/50
https://github.com/omec-project/amf/pull/155
https://github.com/omec-project/amf/pull/138

**Webui**: Improvements in this module include:
- Add GET operations for DeviceGroups and Network Slices.
- Storing configuration in mongodb (separate database collection for
configuration).
- Recovering configuration in case `webui` crashes.
- Port for the `webui` is now configurable for all NFs (it was hard-coded before)

**Sctp-Lb**: Full refactoring of SCTPLB code and its Docker image (size

> decreased from ~1.2GB to 21.2MB)

Reviewer: Refactor of sctp load balancing algorithm

Author: Added
